[CORE] [REP] Ray OBS support (#50)
ray-project/enhancements: reps/2024-04-24-ray-obs-support.md

## Summary

### General Motivation

Ray users can use the submit_job Api to send jobs to the ray cluster.

At the same time, they can specify the location of the project's working directory in a remote file system, for example s3.

> This document suggests expanding the list of supported file systems and adding support for OBS (Object Storage Service).

Reviewer: I assume this is https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/product/obs.html ? Would be good to add a reference to clarify

Author: Done, added link to docs.

After the implementation of this improvement, the user will be able to run submit tasks specifying the location of the working directory in OBS.

> The UserCase of submiting ray job via obs is shown in Figure 1:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The use case of submiting ray job via obs is shown in Figure 1:
```

Author: > 

fixed

> - First, the user startups the remote ray cluster, and then upload the codes to the  obs;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- First, the user starts the remote ray cluster, and then uploads the codes to the obs;
```

Author: fixed

> - Second, the user submits ray job to OBS using the submit_job APIs, as well as setting the obs path in the submit_job API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Second, the user submits ray job to the ray cluster using the submit_job APIs, as well as setting the obs path in the submit_job API
```

Author: fixed

- Third, after submitting the ray job, the ray cluster automatically downloads, uncompresses, and executes the codes from the OBS

> ![Figure 1](2024-04-24-ray-obs-support/fig1.png)

Reviewer 2: You need to do `<img style="background-color:white" src="2024-04-24-ray-obs-support/fig1.png">` to show the image.

Author: fixed

### Should this change be within `ray` or outside?

main `ray` project. Changes are made to Ray core components.

## Stewardship

### Required Reviewers

- @jjyao
- @ericl

### Shepherd of the Proposal (should be a senior committer)

- @ericl

### Design and Architecture

To submit a Ray job through OBS, perform the following steps:

1. Compress the code into a zip or jar package and put it in OBS

> 2. You can use environment variables or configuration files to access the AK, SK, and Endpoint of OBS

Reviewer 2: what's AK, SK?

Author: Access Key, Secret Key for access to OBS, something like in S3.
[AK SK docs](https://support.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/clientogw-obs/obs_03_0405.html)

3. When you submit a ray job, specify the path of the OBS service

```python
job_id = client.submit_job(
    entrypoint="python script.py",
    runtime_env={"working_dir": "obs://example_bucket/example_file.zip"}
)
```

> 4. The ray cluster automatically downloads the example_file.zip from the specified OBS bucket, decompresses it, and then runs the entry file script.py in the working path

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The ray cluster automatically downloads the example_file.zip from the specified OBS bucket, decompresses it, and then runs the entry file script.py in the working dir path
```

Author: fixed

## Design Insights

Modify the source code of Ray so that it can download and run the OBS code as follows:

1. Parse the OBS path, for example, "obs://example_bucket/example_file.zip";

2. Read the AK, SK, and endpoint of OBS through environment variables and configuration files to access the remote OBS path.

3. Download the example_file.zip from the specified OBS bucket, decompress it, and execute the user's code

We can extend the ray project to support obs protocol, enabling the ray cluster to parse the obs URI and download the codes from obs:

1. parse obs URI, such as "obs://example_bucket/example_file.zip";

2. config the obs AK, SK, and Endpoint via environment variables and config files;

> 3. the ray cluster automatically downloads and execute the codes from obs.

Reviewer 2: This is duplicate of the above?

Author: fixed

## Implementation Analysis

To extend the ray project for obs, we first need to figure out the workflow of parsing and accessing remote URIs, which is shown in Figure 2.

> ![Figure 2](2024-04-24-ray-obs-support/fig2.png)

Reviewer 2: same here

Author: fixed

After the user submitting remote ray jobs, the ray cluster calls download_and_unpack_package function to download and uncrompress the remote files, as shown in Figure 2. To extend the ray project for OBS, we should extend the download_and_unpack_package function to support the OBS scheme, which is implemented via the following two steps.

**Step 1**: Extend the **parse_uri** function to parse the OBS URIs, which is implemented in the file [ray/_private/runtime_env/packaging](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/_private/runtime_env/packaging.py).

> **Step 2**: Extend the third-party library [smart_open](https://github.com/piskvorky/smart_open) to read OBS objects, which is suggested to implement 3 interfaces, i.e., parse uri, open_uri, and open, as shown in Extending smart_open.

Reviewer 2: So you will create a PR in smart_open to support OBS first?

Author: Yes, firstly I implement required logic in smart_open.

Reviewer 3: Are you planning to upstream this functionality to `smart_open` or extend it within the Ray codebase?

Author: firstly, I will add functionality to smart_open, then I will add logic to ray packaging.py
